OADP-5512-Added OADP 1.5.0 release note structure (#92230)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-1-5-0-release-notes.adoc

* Modifies that the node-agent is always run as a non-root user.
* Changes the root file system to read only.
* Updates the following mountpoints with the write access:
** `/home/velero`
** `tmp/credentials`
* Uses the `SeccompProfileTypeRuntimeDefault` option for the `SeccompProfile` parameter.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5031[OADP-5031]

.Adds DPA support for parallel item backup

By default, only one thread processes an item block. Velero 1.16 supports a parallel item backup, where multiple items within a backup can be processed in parallel. 
You can use the optional Velero server parameter `--item-block-worker-count`to run additional worker threads to process items in parallel. To enable this in OADP, set the `dpa.Spec.Configuration.Velero.ItemBlockWorkerCount` parameter to an integer value greater than zero.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5635[OADP-5635]

.OADP logs are now available in the JSON format

With this release, the logs are now available in the JSON format. It helps to have pre-parsed data in their elastic logs management system.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3391[OADP-3391]

.The `oc get dpa` command now displays Status

> With this release, the `oc get dpa` command now displays Status to improve user experience.

Author: Fixed

With this update, this issue is now resolved and the namespace admin can access the application successfully after restore.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5611[OADP-5611]

.Specifying status restoration at the individual resource instance level using the annotation is now possible

Previously, status restoration was only configured at the resource type using the `restoreStatus` field in the Restore CR. With this release, you can now specify the status restoration at the individual resource instance level using the following annotation:
[source,terminal]
----
metadata:
  annotations:
    velero.io/restore-status: "true"
----

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5968[OADP-5968]

.Restore is now successful with excludedClusterScopedResources

Previously, on performing the backup of an application with the `excludedClusterScopedResources` field set to `"storageclasses", "Namespace"` parameter, the backup was successful but the restore partially failed. With this update, even the restore is successful.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5239[OADP-5239]

.Backup is completed even if it gets restarted during the waitingForPluginOperations phase

> Previously, a backup was marked as failed with the `failureReason` as,  "Found a backup with status "InProgress" during the server starting, mark it as "Failed" during the `waitingForPluginsOperation` phase. With this update, backup is completed if it gets restarted during the `waitingForPluginOperations` phase.

Author: Fixed

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/oadp-1-5-release-notes.adoc
:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="oadp-1-5-0-release-notes_{context}"]
= OADP 1.5.0 release notes

The {oadp-first} 1.5.0 release notes lists resolved issues and known issues.

[id="new-features-1-5-0_{context}"]
== New features

.Collecting logs with the `must-gather` tool is now possible 

You can collect logs, and information about {oadp-first} custom resources by using the `must-gather` tool. The `must-gather` data must be attached to all customer cases. 

> This tool generates a Markdown output file with the collected information, which is located in a cluster directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tool generates a Markdown output file with the collected information, which is located in the must-gather logs clusters directory.
```

Velero no longer uses the `node-agent-config` ConfigMap resource for configuring the `nodeAgent` `daemonset`.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5042[OADP-5042]

.Configuring DPA with with the backup repository configuration configMap is now possible
	
With Velero 1.15 and later, it is now possible to configure the total size of a cache per repository. This prevents pods from being removed due to running out of ephemeral storage. It also adds the following new parameter to a DPA of `NodeAgentConfig`:

* `cacheLimitMB`: It sets the local data cache size limit in megabytes.
* `fullMaintenanceInterval`: The default value is 24 hours. Controls the removal rate of deleted Velero backups from the Kopia repository using the following override options:
** `normalGC: 24 hours`
** `fastGC: 12 hours`
** `eagerGC: 6 hours`

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5900[OADP-5900]

.Enhancing the node-agent security

With this update, the following changes are added:

* A new `configuration` option is now added to the `velero` field in the DPA specification.

> * The default value for the `disableFsBackup` parameter is `false` or `non-existing`, which is the same as false. With this, the following options are added to the `SecurityContext`:
> ** `Privileged: true`
> ** `AllowPrivilegeEscalation: true`
> * With the `disableFsBackup`parameter set to `true`, removes the following mounts from the node-agent:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The default value for the `disableFsBackup` parameter is `false` or `non-existing`. With this update, the following options are added to the `SecurityContext` field:
** `Privileged: true`
** `AllowPrivilegeEscalation: true`
* If you set the `disableFsBackup` parameter to `true`, it removes the following mounts from the node-agent:
```

** `host-pods`
** `host-plugins`
* Modifies that the node-agent is always run as a non-root user.
* Changes the root file system to read only.
* Updates the following mount points with the write access:
** `/home/velero`
** `tmp/credentials`
* Uses the `SeccompProfileTypeRuntimeDefault` option for the `SeccompProfile` parameter.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5031[OADP-5031]

.Adds DPA support for parallel item backup

> By default, only one thread processes an item block. Velero 1.16 supports a parallel item backup, where multiple items within a backup can be processed in parallel. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, only one thread processes an item block. Velero 1.16 supports a parallel item backup, where multiple items within a backup can be processed in parallel.   Running multiple full backups in parallel is not yet supported.
```

> You can use the optional Velero server parameter `--item-block-worker-count`to run additional worker threads to process items in parallel. To enable this in OADP, set the `dpa.Spec.Configuration.Velero.ItemBlockWorkerCount` parameter to an integer value greater than zero.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the optional Velero server parameter `--item-block-worker-count` to run additional worker threads to process items in parallel. To enable this in OADP, set the `dpa.Spec.Configuration.Velero.ItemBlockWorkerCount` parameter to an integer value greater than zero.
```

- Missing space

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5635[OADP-5635]

.OADP logs are now available in the JSON format

With the of release {oadp-short} 1.5.0, the logs are now available in the JSON format. It helps to have pre-parsed data in their Elastic logs management system.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3391[OADP-3391]

> .The `oc get dpa` command now displays Status

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.The `oc get dpa` command now displays status
```

The status name seems to be missing here.

Author: fixed, thanks for pointing this. I missed adding it

> With this release, the `oc get dpa` command now displays Status to improve user experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this release, the `oc get dpa` command now displays status to improve user experience.
```

Same comment: The status name seems to be missing here. Consider mentioning some details how it improves user experience.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-1338[OADP-1338]

[id="resolved-issues-1-5-0_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

.Containers now use `FallbackToLogsOnError` for `terminationMessagePolicy`

> With this release, for all the {oadp-first} Operator containers such as `operator-manager`, `velero`, `node-agent`, and `non-admin-controller`, the `terminationMessagePolicy` field can now set to the `FallbackToLogsOnError` value. This change ensures that if a container exits with an error and the termination message file is empty, {OCP-short} will use the last portion of the container's log output as the termination message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this release, the `terminationMessagePolicy` field can now set the `FallbackToLogsOnError` value for the {oadp-first} Operator containers such as `operator-manager`, `velero`, `node-agent`, and `non-admin-controller`. This change ensures that if a container exits with an error and the termination message file is empty, {OCP-short} uses the last portion of the container logs output as the termination message.
```

do you mean this? ----
"With this release, the `terminationMessagePolicy` field can now set the `FallbackToLogsOnError` value for the {oadp-first} Operator containers such as `operator-manager`, `velero`, `node-agent`, and `non-admin-controller`. "

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5183[OADP-5183]

.Namespace admin can now access the application after restore

> Previously, the Namespace admin could not execute an application after the restore operation with the errors such as `exec operation is not allowed because the pod's security context exceeds your permissions`, `unable to validate against any security context constraint`, or `not usable by user or serviceaccount, provider restricted-v2`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, the namespace admin could not execute an application after the restore operation with the following errors: 

* `exec operation is not allowed because the pod's security context exceeds your permissions`
* `unable to validate against any security context constraint`
* `not usable by user or serviceaccount, provider restricted-v2`
```

Consider using a bullet list

With this update, this issue is now resolved and the namespace admin can access the application successfully after the restore.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5611[OADP-5611]

.Specifying status restoration at the individual resource instance level using the annotation is now possible

> Previously, status restoration was only configured at the resource type using the `restoreStatus` field in the Restore custom resource (CR). With this release, you can now specify the status restoration at the individual resource instance level using the following annotation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, status restoration was only configured at the resource type using the `restoreStatus` field in the `Restore` custom resource (CR). With this release, you can now specify the status restoration at the individual resource instance level using the following annotation:
```

[source,terminal]
----
metadata:
  annotations:
    velero.io/restore-status: "true"
----

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5968[OADP-5968]

.Restore is now successful with `excludedClusterScopedResources`

> Previously, on performing the backup of an application with the `excludedClusterScopedResources` field set to `"storageclasses", "Namespace"` parameter, the backup was successful but the restore partially failed. With this update, the restore is successful.

Reviewer 2: I do not understand -- "the `excludedClusterScopedResources` field set to `"storageclasses", "Namespace"` parameter" -- does this mean that the field was set to either storageclasse or  Namespace?? Also are these the values that go in the YAML? not sure about back ticks and double quotes too.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5239[OADP-5239]

.Backup is completed even if it gets restarted during the `waitingForPluginOperations` phase

> Previously, a backup was marked as failed with the `failureReason` as,  "Found a backup with status "InProgress" during the server starting, mark it as "Failed" during the `waitingForPluginsOperation` phase. With this update, backup is completed if it gets restarted during the `waitingForPluginOperations` phase.

Reviewer 2: Can you please revisit this structure?? I am confused.

Author: Fixed

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-2941[OADP-2941]

> .Error messages are now more informative when the disableFsbackup parameter is set as true in DPA

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Error messages are now more informative when the` disableFsbackup` parameter is set to `true` in DPA
```

> Previously, when the `spec.configuration.velero.disableFsBackup` from a Data Protection Application (DPA) was set to `true`, the backup partially failed with the following mount point not found error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, when the `spec.configuration.velero.disableFsBackup` field from a Data Protection Application (DPA) was set to `true`, the backup partially failed with the following error:
```

- Add an object name. See, https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#object-references

[source,terminal]
----
Velero:    message: /pod volume backup failed: error exposing host path for pod volume: error identifying unique volume path on host for volume mysql-data1 in pod mysql-64c9d6466-xb97k: expected one matching path: /host_pods/3785fc1d-1468-4144-8f3c-4ee8c2baec0c/volumes/*/pvc-dbceb12a-5331-479c-b2cd-5263e019c201/mount, got 0
----

> This error message was not informative. This update makes error messages more useful for troubleshooting issues. For example, setting `disableFsBackup: true` is the issue in a DPA and not having access to a DPA if it is for non-administrator users.

Reviewer 2: Consider revisiting the sentence structure. I am slightly confused to guess what it's trying to say by pointing the above error

Author: fixed, thanks

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5952[OADP-5952]

.Handles AWS STS credentials in the parseAWSSecret

> Previously, where AWS credentials using STS authentication were not properly validated. With this update, the `parseAWSSecret` function detects STS-specific fields, and updates the `ensureSecretDataExists` function to handle STS profiles correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, AWS credentials using STS authentication were not properly validated. With this update, the `parseAWSSecret` function detects STS-specific fields, and updates the `ensureSecretDataExists` function to handle STS profiles correctly.
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-6105[OADP-6105]

.The `repositoryMaintenance` job affinity config is available to configure
	

> Previously, the new configurations for repository maintenance job pod affinity was missing from a DPA specification. With this update, the `repositoryMaintenance` job affinity config is now available to map a `BackupRepository`identifier to its configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, the new configurations for repository maintenance job pod affinity was missing from a DPA specification. With this update, the `repositoryMaintenance` job affinity config is now available to map a `BackupRepository` identifier to its configuration.
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-6134[OADP-6134]

.The `ValidationErrors` field fades away once the CR specification is correct

Previously, when a schedule CR was created with a wrong `spec.schedule` value and the same was later patched with a correct value, the `ValidationErrors` field still existed. Consequently, the `ValidationErrors` field was displaying incorrect information even though the spec was correct. 
With this update, the `ValidationErrors` field fades away once the CR specification is correct.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5419[OADP-5419]

> .The `volumeSnapshotContents` are restored when the `includedNamesapces` field is used in restoreSpec

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.The `volumeSnapshotContents` objects are restored when the `includedNamesapces` field is used in `restoreSpec`
```

Are `volumeSnapshotContents` objects? or resources?

See, https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#object-references

Author: fixed, thanks

> Previously, when a restore operation was triggered with the `includedNamespace` field in a DPA specification, restore operation was completed successfully but no `VolumesnapshotContents` were created and the PVCs were in a `Pending` status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, when a restore operation was triggered with the `includedNamespace` field in a DPA specification, restore operation was completed successfully but no `VolumesnapshotContents` objects were created and the PVCs were in a `Pending` status.
```

Same question as ealier about `volumeSnapshotContents`

> With this update, the `volumeSnapshotContents` are restored even when the `includedNamesapces` field is used in `restoreSpec`. As a result, an application pod is in a `Running` state after restore. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this update, `volumeSnapshotContents` are restored even when the `includedNamesapces` field is used in `restoreSpec`. As a result, an application pod is in a `Running` state after restore. 
```

[source,terminal]
----
ERROR unable to determine if bucket exists. {"error": "open /tmp/aws-shared-credentials1211864681: read-only file system"}
----
With this update, the following changes are added to address this issue:

* A new `emptyDir` volume named `tmp-dir` to the controller pod specification.
* A volume mount to the container, which mounts this volume to the `/tmp` directory.
* For security best practices, the `readOnlyRootFilesystem: true` is maintained.
* Replaced the deprecated `ioutil.TempFile()` function with the recommended `os.CreateTemp()` function.
* Removed the unnecessary `io/ioutil` import, which is no longer needed.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-6019[OADP-6019]

For a complete list of all issues resolved in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12462673[OADP 1.5.0 resolved issues] in Jira.

[id="known-issues-1-5-0_{context}"]
== Known issues

.Kopia does not delete the artifacts after backup expiration

> Even after deleting a backup, Kopia does not delete the volume artifacts from the ${bucket_name}/kopia/${namespace} on the S3 location after the backup expired. To ensure that {oadp-first} functions properly, the data is not deleted, and it exists in the `/kopia/` directory, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even after deleting a backup, Kopia does not delete the volume artifacts from the `${bucket_name}/kopia/${namespace}` on the S3 location after the backup expired. To ensure that {oadp-first} functions properly, the data is not deleted, and it exists in the `/kopia/` directory, for example:
```

* `kopia.repository`: Main repository format information such as encryption, version, and other details. 
* `kopia.blobcfg`: Configuration for how data blobs are named. 
* `kopia.maintenance`: Tracks maintenance owner, schedule, and last successful build. 
* `log*`: Log blobs. 
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5131[OADP-5131]

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12472334[OADP 1.5.0 known issues] in Jira.

[id="deprecated-features-1-5-0_{context}"]
== Deprecated features

.The `configuration.restic.podConfig.resourceAllocations` specification field has been deprecated

With {oadp-first} 1.5.0, the `configuration.restic.podConfig.resourceAllocations` specification field has been deprecated. Use the `nodeAgent` section with the `uploaderType` field set to `Kopia` instead of `Restic`.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5158[OADP-5158]

[id="technoloy-preview-1-5-0_{context}"]
== Technology Preview

> .Support for HyperShift hosted OpenShift clusters is available as a Technology Preview
> 
> {oadp-short} can support and facilitate application migrations within HyperShift hosted {OCP-short} clusters as a Technology Preview. It ensures a seamless backup and restore operation for applications in HyperShift hosted clusters.
> For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview/[Technology Preview Features Support Scope].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Support for HyperShift hosted OpenShift clusters is available as a Technology Preview

{oadp-short} can support and facilitate application migrations within HyperShift hosted {OCP-short} clusters as a Technology Preview. It ensures a seamless backup and restore operation for applications in hosted clusters.
For more information about the support scope of Red{nbsp}Hat Technology Preview features, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview/[Technology Preview Features Support Scope].
```

We do not use the term "HYperShift" in our product documentation. Consider revisiting this section. Please see https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/term_glossary.adoc#hosted-control-planes

Author: fixed, thanks

* For security best practices, the `readOnlyRootFilesystem: true` is maintained.
* Replaced the deprecated `ioutil.TempFile()` function with the recommended `os.CreateTemp()` function.
* Removed the unnecessary `io/ioutil` import, which is no longer needed.

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-6019[OADP-6019]

For a complete list of all issues resolved in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12462673[OADP 1.5.0 resolved issues] in Jira.

[id="known-issues-1-5-0_{context}"]
== Known issues

.Kopia does not delete the artifacts after backup expiration

Even after deleting a backup, Kopia does not delete the volume artifacts from the `${bucket_name}/kopia/${namespace}` on the S3 location after the backup expired. To ensure that {oadp-first} functions properly, the data is not deleted, and it exists in the `/kopia/` directory, for example:

* `kopia.repository`: Main repository format information such as encryption, version, and other details. 
* `kopia.blobcfg`: Configuration for how data blobs are named. 
* `kopia.maintenance`: Tracks maintenance owner, schedule, and last successful build. 

> * `log*`: Log blobs. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `log`: Log blobs. 
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-5131[OADP-5131]

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12472334[OADP 1.5.0 known issues] in Jira.

[id="deprecated-features-1-5-0_{context}"]
== Deprecated features

> .The `configuration.restic.podConfig.resourceAllocations` specification field has been deprecated

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.The `configuration.restic` specification field has been deprecated
```

> With {oadp-first} 1.5.0, the `configuration.restic.podConfig.resourceAllocations` specification field has been deprecated. Use the `nodeAgent` section with the `uploaderType` field set to `Kopia` instead of `Restic`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With {oadp-first} 1.5.0, the `configuration.restic.podConfig.resourceAllocations` specification field has been deprecated. Use the `nodeAgent` section with the `uploaderType` field for selecting kopia or restic. Note: Restic is deprecated in 1.5
```

> With {oadp-first} 1.5.0, the `configuration.restic.podConfig.resourceAllocations` specification field has been deprecated. Use the `nodeAgent` section with the `uploaderType` field set to `Kopia` instead of `Restic`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With {oadp-first} 1.5.0, the `configuration.restic` specification field has been deprecated. Use the `nodeAgent` section with the `uploaderType` field set to `Kopia` instead of `Restic`.
```
